DevOps:
------------------
Treditinal Software development life cycle
  1. plan
  2. code
  3. Build 
  4. Test
  5. Deploy
  6. Operate
  7. monitor
  
Bussiness team  --> do 1
Develpment team --> do 2, 3,4
operation team  --> do 5, 6, 7

Q. What is Devops? 
Devops is a culture or practice which fills the gaps between development and opertaions . both teams works together in entire SDLC  to ensure the quality of the product , ablity of the product to work in different environemtns. Lot of tools avaiable to automate this process.
  1. Fast Delivery
  2. Reduce time
  3. Rollout/Rollback
  4. Quality
  5. Collaboration
  6. More Agility
  7. Easy to use
  8. Reliable
  9. Secure
  
Q. What is Azure Devops?
Azure Devops is set of modern services which is used to provide 1. plan smarter 2. collaborate better 3. ship faster . and also Azure devops provides all these features, you can restric as per your role. it maintained by Microsoft. it formerly know as Visual studio team services.

Q. Difference between Azure and Azure Devops?
Azure is cloud solution, where you will be provided with computing power and store the data securely. where as Azure devops is one of the fetures of Azure. 
Azure Devops provided 5 sevices 1. boards 2. repos 3. pipelines 4. test plans 5. artifacts.
1. boards --> its to plan your work
2. repos  --> to manage the code using git, other 
3. pipeline --> for deployment of the code
4. testplan --> for testing the code developed
5. artifacts  --> collection of packages ready for deployments

Q. Selecting the Azure devops severs in Azure?
Lot of companies do not want their data to be stored on the cloud providers servers. Azure provides two types of server configration
  1. cloud
  2. on-premise 
 
Q. VSTS to Azure devops?
on september10, 2018 microsoft changed the name VSTS to Azure devops services
VSTS(Visual Studio team Services) |   Azure Devops
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.  Build 7 Release               |    Azure Pipelines
2.  Code                          |    Azure Repos
3.  work                          |    Azure Boards
4.  test                          |    Azure test plans
5.  packages                      |    Azure Artifacts

Q. Azure devops portal?
https://dev.azure.com --> create your account.  
1. Azure devops starts with creating your organization, under you create multiple projects. 
2. creating multiple organization. we can treat organization as an account, bussiness unit, sub-companies, groups, etc...
3. each organization has one URL and each organization has its own URL.
4. Organization name should be unique name. once its created in a region we can't change the region details.

Q. What is project ? 
A project is place where actual product development is done by team. a project provides a repository for source code and a place fo a group of people to plan, track progress and collaborate on builing software solutions. All the data related to software is stored under project. A project provides all main services like repo, boards, pipeline, testplan, artifacts. 
projects are of two types
  1. public project --> its publically available to every one.
  2. private project  --> its private and visible to only to the people who has access. 
  
Q. creating a project? 
to create a project, follow this steps.
login --> select organization --> create project --> project name, type public/private  -->Advanced -->  select version control--> Git/Team fundation version control  --> select work item process --> basic/scrum/agile/CMMI
  
Q. what is board in Azure devops? 
Azure board is on of the service in the azure devops which is used in a project to track the work with kanban board, work with backlogs, team dashboard & reporting.

Q. What is kanban board? 
A kanban board which will have the details of all work items which you need to be delivered in that project work. a work item is a task, job, bug, improvement or change which need to be delivered in the project. 

Q. what is backlog?
when we are working in a product development, the BU/responsible person has to create a backlog. the backlog has work-items that need to be finished in the current/upcomming spint. in azure boards we can have all the details of the backlogs.

Q. what is team dashboard?
is somthing where we will track the team progress on the work-items. its like a reporting area.

Q. uses of azure boards? 
they are useful to manage and tracking the work of a team members. to track the progress of the sprint. we can manage scrum and sprint using azure boards. get differnet types of reports. 

Q. who will work on azure boards?
the team need to work on the azure boards. like development team work on managing their work done by development team. PO will responsible to mantain the backlog. stakeholders are added to the project can see the status of team. 
work item process--> basic, scrum, agile, cmmi

Q. what is a work-item?
work-item is a work assinged to a person/team. this may consist of small/large units. each work item has few details like title, description, assinged to, completed and etc. when we create a project with basic work item process, it have 3 types of azure boards.
  1. epic (portfolio )
  2. issue (products)
  3. task

epic is a large unit consists of multiple issues. issues consists of mutiple tasks.

example: During the project development, if we have mutiple task like login, logout, authentication,

Q. What is WorkFlow?
workflow is the process of tracking the work-item progress. basic stages of workflow is like todo--> doing --> done 

